Hi friends
In this video we are going to discuss about structure within structure
First let us create a structure to represent a point
on a two dimensional plane so we can create struct
point like this
Now what if we want to represent a line? What
will be the solution? As we know a line has two
points. so we can place the struct point 2 times inside the
structure line like this inside the structure line we can
have struct point p1 and struct point p2
Now we have represented a line successfully
Here we are placing a structure inside another structure
Hence we call the structure within structure the memory
allocation of struct line will be inside struct line L
struct point p1 with two coordinates will be
created and struct point p2 with two coordinates will
also be created like this
Now how to access the structure members? we can access
X of p1 using l.p1.x
y of p1 using l.p1.y
x of p2 using l.p2.x
and y of p2 using l.p2.y
now Let us see a C
programme To find the distance between two points first we
create a floating point variable distance
Now we create structure point within structure line First let
us read the coordinates of point1
From the user.  suppose user enters two and four
it is read to l.p1.x and
l.p1.y now let us read the
coordinates of point2 from the user Suppose user enters
10 and 5
It is read to l.p2.x and l.p2.y
now Distance is calculated Using this
formula. square root of (x2 - x1)^2 +
(y2 - y1)^2
And here we use functions sqrt
and  pow from math.h header file
and is calculated and is stored to variable distance
and is finally printed
So that's all and thank you for watching this video